SQL concept entry - Between (#5290)
Codecademy/docs: content/sql/concepts/dates/terms/between/between.md

---
Title: 'BETWEEN'
Description: 'Returns records where a specified value is within a given range, including the boundary values.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Data Science'
Tags:
  - 'Database'
  - 'Date'
  - 'Queries'
  - 'SQL Server'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-sql'
  - 'paths/analyze-data-with-sql'
---

> The **`BETWEEN`** [operator](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/sql/operators) is used to find values within a given range. The values can be texts, dates, or numbers. Also, this operator is _inclusive_, i.e., both beginning and ending values are included.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`BETWEEN`** [operator](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/sql/operators) finds values within a given range. The values can be texts, dates, or numbers. Also, this operator is inclusive, i.e., both beginning and ending values are included.
```

## Syntax

```pseudo

> SELECT column_name(s) from table_name where column_name between value1 and value2;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SELECT column_name(s)
FROM table_name
WHERE column_name BETWEEN value1 AND value2;
```

```

> > Note: The basic syntax for `BETWEEN` is generally same across most databases, but some differences may arise depending on how each database handles specific [data types](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/sql/data-types) or expressions. To use this operator on a particular database, concepts such as _data handling_, _null handling_, _case sensitivity_, and _collations_ need to be checked first to avoid errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note: The basic syntax for `BETWEEN` is generally the same across most databases, but some differences may arise depending on how each database handles specific [data types](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/sql/data-types) or expressions. To use this operator on a particular database, data handling, null handling, case sensitivity, and collations must be checked first to avoid errors.
```

## Example

> Suppose there’s a `bodega` table with the following data:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Suppose there’s a `order_details` table with the following data:
```

| order_id | item         | price | quantity | order_date          |
| -------- | ------------ | ----- | -------- | ------------------- |
| 1        | Donut        | 2.49  | 2        | 2022-08-16 08:04:23 |
| 2        | Cookie       | 0.99  | 3        | 2022-08-21 09:43:00 |
| 3        | Donut        | 2.49  | 1        | 2022-08-18 11:25:12 |
| 4        | Egg Sandwich | 7.99  | 1        | 2022-08-20 11:45:41 |
| 5        | Ice Coffee   | 3.99  | 2        | 2022-08-17 12:18:50 |

Here is a query using the `BETWEEN` operator:

```sql
SELECT * FROM bodega WHERE order_date BETWEEN '2022-08-15' AND '2022-08-19';
```

> This would return all records from the `bodega` table, where the `order_date` is between _August 15, 2022_ and _August 19, 2022_ (inclusive):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This would return all records from the `order_details` table, where the `order_date` is between August 15, 2022 and August 19, 2022 (inclusive):
```
It would be best to use a descriptive name for the table.

---
Title: 'BETWEEN()'
Description: 'Returns records where a specified value is within a given range, including the boundary values.'
Subjects:
  - 'Data Science'
Tags:
  - 'Database'
  - 'Date'
  - 'Queries'
  - 'SQL Server'
  - 'MySQL'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-sql'
  - 'paths/analyze-data-with-sql'
  - 'paths/design-databases-with-postgresql'
---

The **`BETWEEN()`** operator is used to find values within a given range. The values can be numbers, texts, or dates.

The **`BETWEEN()`** operator is _inclusive_. Both begin and end values are included.

## Syntax

> ```sql
> SELECT column_name(s) from table_name where column_name between value1 and value2;
> ```

Reviewer 2: Let's use `pseudo` instead of `sql` since the code block is representing a syntax and not an example:

````suggestion
```pseudo
SELECT column_name(s) from table_name where column_name between value1 and value2;
```
````

> > **Note** The basic syntax for `BETWEEN()` is generally same across most databases, but some differences may arise depending on how each database handles specific data types or expressions. You have to look for Data handling, Null handling, Case Sensitivity and Collations when using the operator on your database.

Reviewer 2: Let's link 'data types' to its doc entry and do some minor changes:

```suggestion
> Note: The basic syntax for `BETWEEN` is generally same across most databases, but some differences may arise depending on how each database handles specific [data types](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/sql/data-types) or expressions. To use this operator on a particular database, concepts such as _data handling_, _null handling_, _case sensitivity_, and _collations_ need to be checked first to avoid errors.
```

## Example

> For example, suppose there’s a `bodega` table with the following data:

Reviewer 2: Let's do some minor changes:

```suggestion
Suppose, there’s a `bodega` table with the following data:
```

| order_id | item         | price | quantity | order_date          |
| -------- | ------------ | ----- | -------- | ------------------- |
| 1        | Donut        | 2.49  | 2        | 2022-08-16 08:04:23 |
| 2        | Cookie       | 0.99  | 3        | 2022-08-21 09:43:00 |
| 3        | Donut        | 2.49  | 1        | 2022-08-18 11:25:12 |
| 4        | Egg Sandwich | 7.99  | 1        | 2022-08-20 11:45:41 |
| 5        | Ice Coffee   | 3.99  | 2        | 2022-08-17 12:18:50 |

> ```sql
> SELECT * FROM bodega WHERE order_date BETWEEN '2022-08-15' AND '2022-08-19';
> ```

Reviewer 2: Let's add an introductory sentence for the query:

````suggestion
Here is a query using the `BEtWEEN` operator:

```sql
SELECT * FROM bodega WHERE order_date BETWEEN '2022-08-15' AND '2022-08-19';
```
````

> This would return all records from the **bodega** table where the `order_date` is between August 15, 2022, and August 19, 2022 (inclusive).

Reviewer 2: Let's do some minor changes:

```suggestion
This would return all records from the `bodega` table, where the `order_date` is between _August 15, 2022_ and _August 19, 2022_ (inclusive):
```
